chore(blog): add tooling update 1 (#661)
asyncapi/website: pages/blog/tooling-update-1.md

---

> title: "AsyncAPI tooling update 1"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "AsyncAPI Tooling: update 1"
```

date: 2022-04-13T18:00:00+01:00
type: Communication
tags:
  - Project Status
  - Tooling Status
cover: /img/posts/tooling-update.webp
authors:
  - name: Jonas Lagoni
    photo: /img/avatars/jonaslagoni.webp
    link: https://github.com/jonaslagoni
    byline: AsyncAPI Maintainer

> excerpt: 'A short update on what have happened since last update around tooling'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
excerpt: 'A short update on what has happened since the last update of AsyncAPI tooling.'
```

featured: true
---

> Another update on what happen in our tools that help developers develop EDAs and APIs! :fire: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Welcome to another update on what happens in our tools that help developers develop EDAs and APIs! :fire: 
```
Of course, the 'welcome' is up to you 😸 I just felt the original sentence beginning sounded choppy and abrupt.

But `happens` was a mispelling that needed to be fixed 👯

> Another update on what happen in our tools that help developers develop EDAs and APIs! :fire: 
> 
> The previous two updates can be found here: [January](https://gist.github.com/jonaslagoni/4a0117e1432936b89e05b6a509d94259) and [February](https://gist.github.com/jonaslagoni/185890cd7e84ed95c14b8f0556788b7b), however going forward I will add a new blog post for each update. If you have any remarks or if something is missing, you can [suggest changes in through the website repository](https://github.com/asyncapi/website/tree/master/pages/blog/tooling-update-1.md). 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is another update on what happened in our tools that help developers develop EDAs and APIs! :fire: 

The previous two updates can be found here: [January](https://gist.github.com/jonaslagoni/4a0117e1432936b89e05b6a509d94259) and [February](https://gist.github.com/jonaslagoni/185890cd7e84ed95c14b8f0556788b7b). Going forward, I will instead add new updates via blog posts. If you have any remarks or if something is missing, you can [suggest changes through the website repository](https://github.com/asyncapi/website/tree/master/pages/blog/tooling-update-1.md). 

```

> If you want to include updates from your personal tooling, the [next blog post can be found here](https://github.com/asyncapi/website/pull/662), just leave a comment with the updates you want included.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to include updates from your personal tooling, the [next blog post PR can be found here](https://github.com/asyncapi/website/pull/662), just leave a comment with the updates you want to be included.
```
It's confusing to say it's a blog post link when it's really a PR, so I wanted to fix that 😸

## In focus

> [In January I opened up a discussion around potential changes](https://github.com/asyncapi/community/discussions/237) to the AsyncAPI roadmap to change the focus towards the entire lifecycle of APIs instead of only tooling to create APIs. Please do have a look and let us know what you think, as I will start to drive this change soon!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[In January, I opened up a discussion around potential changes](https://github.com/asyncapi/community/discussions/237) to the AsyncAPI roadmap to change the focus towards the entire lifecycle of APIs instead of only tooling to create APIs. Please do look and let us know what you think, as I will start driving this change soon!
```

> This means these tooling update blogs, will focus on the roadmap and goals to push them forward.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means that these tooling update blog posts will focus on the roadmap and goals to push them forward.
```

## Improvements

> This post bundles updates from the following official tools: [bundler](https://github.com/asyncapi/bundler), [chatbot](https://github.com/asyncapi/chatbot), [studio](https://github.com/asyncapi/studio), [diff](https://github.com/asyncapi/diff), [glee](https://github.com/asyncapi/glee), [create-glee-app](https://github.com/asyncapi/create-glee-app), [cli](https://github.com/asyncapi/cli), [optimizer](https://github.com/asyncapi/optimizer), [modelina](https://github.com/asyncapi/modelina), [generator](https://github.com/asyncapi/generator), [generator-react-sdk](https://github.com/asyncapi/generator-react-sdk), [java-template](https://github.com/asyncapi/java-template), [java-spring-cloud-stream-template](https://github.com/asyncapi/java-spring-cloud-stream-template), [java-spring-template](https://github.com/asyncapi/java-spring-template), [dotnet-nats-template](https://github.com/asyncapi/dotnet-nats-template), [ts-nats-template](https://github.com/asyncapi/ts-nats-template), [java-template](https://github.com/asyncapi/java-template).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This post bundles updates from the following official tools: [bundler](https://github.com/asyncapi/bundler), [chatbot](https://github.com/asyncapi/chatbot), [studio](https://github.com/asyncapi/studio), [diff](https://github.com/asyncapi/diff), [glee](https://github.com/asyncapi/glee), [create-glee-app](https://github.com/asyncapi/create-glee-app), [cli](https://github.com/asyncapi/cli), [optimizer](https://github.com/asyncapi/optimizer), [modelina](https://github.com/asyncapi/modelina), [generator](https://github.com/asyncapi/generator), [generator-react-sdk](https://github.com/asyncapi/generator-react-sdk), [java-template](https://github.com/asyncapi/java-template), [java-spring-cloud-stream-template](https://github.com/asyncapi/java-spring-cloud-stream-template), [java-spring-template](https://github.com/asyncapi/java-spring-template), [dotnet-nats-template](https://github.com/asyncapi/dotnet-nats-template), [ts-nats-template](https://github.com/asyncapi/ts-nats-template), and [java-template](https://github.com/asyncapi/java-template).
```

### .NET Nats template
- [YoeriVD](https://github.com/YoeriVD) [added a missing project reference to test project](https://github.com/asyncapi/dotnet-nats-template/pull/228)
- [YoeriVD](https://github.com/YoeriVD) [switched the generated code to using .NET Standard instead of .NET Core.](https://github.com/asyncapi/dotnet-nats-template/pull/229)

### Java spring cloud stream template
- [CameronRushton](https://github.com/CameronRushton) [fixed a problem with union types in Avro schemas generating incorrect code](https://github.com/asyncapi/java-spring-cloud-stream-template/pull/250). 
- [CameronRushton](https://github.com/CameronRushton) [fixed a problem where Avro schemas with namespaces was not correctly used](https://github.com/asyncapi/java-spring-cloud-stream-template/pull/246).
- [CameronRushton](https://github.com/CameronRushton) [added a missing import](https://github.com/asyncapi/java-spring-cloud-stream-template/pull/244).
- [CameronRushton](https://github.com/CameronRushton) [fixed generation failed when payload schemas had an `$id` field](https://github.com/asyncapi/java-spring-cloud-stream-template/pull/241).

### Glee

> - [sudoshreyansh](https://github.com/sudoshreyansh) [when Glee detect invalid returned data it is now logged](https://github.com/asyncapi/glee/pull/273)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [sudoshreyansh](https://github.com/sudoshreyansh) [when Glee detects invalid returned data it is now logged](https://github.com/asyncapi/glee/pull/273)
```

> - [sudoshreyansh](https://github.com/sudoshreyansh) [added a bunch of more missing tests](https://github.com/asyncapi/glee/pull/266)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [sudoshreyansh](https://github.com/sudoshreyansh) [added a bunch more of missing tests](https://github.com/asyncapi/glee/pull/266)
```

- [slowikowskiarkadiusz](https://github.com/slowikowskiarkadiusz) [added support for shorthand accessors for C# classes](https://github.com/asyncapi/modelina/pull/671)
- [slowikowskiarkadiusz](https://github.com/slowikowskiarkadiusz) [added support for different collection types for C# list properties](https://github.com/asyncapi/modelina/pull/669)
- [ibernabeudev](https://github.com/ibernabeudev) [added enum rendering to Go](https://github.com/asyncapi/modelina/pull/662)
- [jonaslagoni](https://github.com/jonaslagoni) [added new core model and started the refactoring](https://github.com/asyncapi/modelina/pull/655), see more on the [`next` branch](https://github.com/asyncapi/modelina/tree/next)

### Simulator
- [NektariosFifes](https://github.com/NektariosFifes) [added the initial setup for the electron application](https://github.com/asyncapi/simulator/pull/103), that will serve as a dashboard for simulation 

### Generator
- [magicmatatjahu](https://github.com/magicmatatjahu) [fixed ts-node would use multiple instances](https://github.com/asyncapi/generator/pull/764)

> 

Reviewer: @jonaslagoni Since this is a blog post, do you think you want to add a closing statement or goodbye? 😸 

It seems abrupt to not have a short closing to the blog post for the reader.

Author: I think you are right yea 🤔 

I cant really think of anything to add, any suggestions?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## In closing
I hope you enjoyed my first AsyncAPI Tooling blog update, and I look forward to your feedback. 

See you in the next Tools update!
```

Sure, maybe something similar to this? 😄✌🏽

Author: Well, should not be seen as "my" update but ours 😄 

Added a closing statement 🙂
